the assumption that the best protein  comes from corpses is a racist belief  human is actually defined as white male  property owner and then there's a  species boundary and everyone else  that's a topic for a video  21st century animal eating requires our  complicity in a new colonialism  we know how settler colonialism worked  and a race and replace system that  forced indigenous people off the land  replacing them with cattle and white  settlers  one of the defining aspects of the  colonial legacy is an ongoing white  supremacist belief system and an  ownership paradigm  when you own the land you get the title  to it  entitlement and ownership are linked  what we have is a white supremacist  misogynist conceptualizations of the  other they're separate issues  no  we must have a theory that links  animality and white supremacy and  misogynism misogyny your hamburger comes  with a dose of misogyny so the  intersection of race gender and species  is always happening in obvious ways by  racially marking an animal as non-white  now this doesn't happen a lot  where the animals are marked as  non-white so this is unusual but when  when it happens it's often with beavers  this is actually a three-dimensional  sign in upstate new york so that if  you're looking at it from the side her  breasts jumped shut out so meat  advertisements are saying something  about race as well as gender and species  we have animalized racialized women and  feminized sexualized and racialized  animals white supremacists weapon  weaponized  eating meat eggs and dairy  images of milk drinking white men of  platters groaning with meat  and the baiting of liberal men as  so-called soy boys are all part of the  neo-nazi  messaging  [Applause]  this is their right the neo-nazis say  this is their identity  the new colonization rests on the  unstable foundation of white men's  insecurities to say you care about  animals is considered a sign of weakness  in a world still committed to the gender  binary  that values stereotyped masculine reason  over stereotyped feminine feeling the  perspective represented is about the  natures of whiteness and masculinity and  the recuperation of white maleness a  human animal binary functions in racist  and misogynistic logic  anthropocentrism  is inevitably racist  in its human centeredness well it's  man-centeredness right  so anthropocentrism our views about  animals  is inevitably racist in its  man-centeredness  you're with me so far whiteness informs  the definition of human and animal  through colonial power the diet of  beef-loving english people became  normative  the food heritage of pre-conquest  peoples like the land itself was overrun  it was the colonizers especially the  british who declared that the virility  of meat-eating nations explained their  success over the supposed feminine and  weak rice-eating countries that  they defeated the assumption that the  best protein comes from corpses is a  racist belief tonight you're being asked  to vote on whether you accept this new  colonialism or not  our menu choices don't stay on the plate  and i heard all your laughter i know  some of these must be new ideas or you  think they're fringe or whatever  our whiteness is part of the problem of  meat eating  some of the advertisements  promoting bacon  promoting beef promoting milk  some of them  are kind of sexist some of the  advertisements  for alcohol  are kind of sexist some of the  advertisements  for cigarettes  are kind of sexist even if all that's  true  this discussion has to begin and end  with me having the honesty to say  that is irrelevant to my decision  my decision to refuse to smoke  cigarettes and it's actually irrelevant  to the political discussion about what  our policy on nicotine and tobacco  should be the facts  that people employ  to support their own arguments in  politics the facts that people  selectively choose  to illustrate and prove the validity of  their own position  are often  completely irrelevant to the matter at  hand they're completely spurious  to the decisions we have to make  something can be irrelevant  something can be spurious  whether it is true  or false  factually  i do not think any of the claims  made by carol j adams in that argument  are valid the claims she makes about  racism the claim she makes about the  history of colonialism about the  cultures of indigenous people and how  they were all supposedly vegetarian  until five minutes before the british  empire showed up and conquered them and  converted them to  eating animals  on a range of issues her factual claims  are  from my perspective outrageously  laughably false  but even if they were true  they'd have to be dismissed  as irrelevant  let's say we're debating the question of  whether or not  turkey should be a member state  of the european union or whether or not  any particular country whether it be  england or canada should set up a  special  free trade agreement with turkey embrace  the turks politically economically have  unlimited amounts of immigration from  turkey  if you tell me that you're opposed to  this  and i say why why would anyone be  morally or politically opposed to us  having warmer ties  with turkey  if your answer is well you know  there's this war  on the island of cyprus is that the  reason  if i press you on i say okay  hypothetically  what if tomorrow turkey commits to  withdrawing all of its troops from  cyprus reunification of cyprus the war  is over if that also lands tomorrow if  they do that then will you support the  free free trade agreement with turkey  then will you support turkey becoming a  member or are you going to move on to  presenting another perhaps factually  valid  but irrelevant reason oh well you know  turkey um  i don't like the way they they oppress  the kurds they're an ethnic minority the  kurdish and they're kind of racist  against the words okay  what if  what if somehow magically we could  remove that from equation is that really  why you're opposed to this free trade  agreement well you know uh the status of  women the kind of sexist you know it's  kind of a backward you know patriarchal  society oh okay really  you know in this way  we have to disambiguate in politics what  our position really is what it is we're  really arguing for  or why i'm i'm morally opposed to xi  jinping  being the political leader  of china a lot of people are a lot of  people say but if you talk to someone  face to face say okay so why are you why  are you so anti-china why are you so  hostile china today they're very likely  to say to you  that it's because of the mistreatment of  the muslim minority in the chinese  province of xinjiang  let me ask you would you actually  support xi jinping would you be  pro-china instead of anti-china if  overnight they changed their policy on  the muslim minority incident no  you'd find some other pretext some other  excuse some other reason even if these  things are factual  and very often they're not the  particular facts people employ people  deploy people cling to people select and  present are often  utterly irrelevant  meat eating  is not racist meaning does not support  white supremacy the connection between  meat-eating and colonialism and  masculinity  it's laughable but if it were true  if each and every step taken in her  reasoning  were valid  it would still  be  irrelevant some of the advertisements  promoting bacon  promoting beef promoting milk  some of them  are kind of sexist some of them kind of  offend even my  feminist  sensibilities but you know what  some of the advertisements  for alcohol  are kind of sexist some of the  advertisements  for cigarettes  are kind of sexist if i told you i've  never smoked a cigarette in my life and  i'm never going to then you asked me why  i said you know what it is you know what  is i'm just so furious that they have  these photographs of sexy scantily clad  women the problem is that cigarette  advertising is just so oppressive to  women it's just so sexually exploitative  that i can't get behind smoking  seriously you you should say to me  well wait a minute  if i can show you  a brand of cigarettes that's 100  produced and marketed by feminist  lesbians would you smoke them  and if we had the whole marketing  industry the whole cigarette industry  taken over by feminist lesbians who  agree with you ideologically and who  would never have a woman in a bikini  advertising cigarettes that way for  these kinds of people  then then you wouldn't have any problem  with becoming a nicotine addict  yourself even if cigarette advertising  is sexist or is racist or is in some  21st century sense of the term  oppressive even if the history of the  tobacco industry is uniquely and  powerfully linked to colonialism and  slavery even if all that's true  this discussion has to begin and end  with me having the honesty to say  that is irrelevant to my decision  my decision to refuse to smoke  cigarettes and it's actually irrelevant  to the political discussion about what  our policy on nicotine and tobacco  should be  in this same way  no matter how racist no matter how  sexist the production of meat may be or  the marketing of meat maybe the reality  is if you show me a piece of pork  that was produced by indigenous people  in papua new guinea who have never had  any contact  with european colonialism who are not in  any way white supremacists and let's say  for the sake of argument they're not  sexist either even if this comes out of  the supposed utopia  of papua new guinea  i  won't  eat it  and i'm not gonna lie to you  and i'm not gonna lie to myself  about the reasons  why  in politics  you don't get to choose whether you are  going to win or whether you are going to  lose  you get to choose the rules that you are  going to follow when you play the game  i'm vegan  but i am not going to be part of a  movement  that's built  on a lie